Hello everyone.
In this lesson we are going to get ready to push our Web site up onto the Web.
So as of this moment our workflow is set up in a way that benefits us.
The developer or creator of the Web site but in this lesson we need to take a moment to create an alternate
version of our Web site that is optimized for the public or that is created in a way that can easily
be delivered to a web host.
If that doesn't make sense that's OK.
Let me show you what I mean.
So right now I want you to find wherever your project lives on your computer.
So for me it's in this site's folder and then it's in travel site.
So the app folder is our source code.
It's where we work as the developer of the project.
But we can't really deliver the files of the app folder to a web post for the public to view.
Right.
Because if you go into the app folder and then if you drag index dot HDMI all on top of a web browser
window to open it you can see right away that it's not loading our SS or JavaScript.
Remember this is because we configured web back to not actually save the bundled file to our file disk.
So when Web pack bundles up all of our CSX and JavaScript we configured it in a way so that it just
stores it in memory.
And then when we run NPM run Dev write that fires up web pack dev server and then you can access the
bundle just from a U.R.L. of local host colon three thousand slash bundled the DOT J Yes.
Right.
And then this contains all of the CSA and JavaScript.
Well this is great for us.
The developer or creator of the Web site on our local machine but it doesn't work at all in terms of
delivering our files to a web host.
So the public can view our Web site.
So to get back to our files right now let me go back up a folder in this lesson we're going to set things
up so that we still have the app folder just the same as it's always been that's for us the developer
but we're also going to have web back automatically generate another copy of our Web site.
So it's going to create a new folder in this directory named dist short for distribution and that will
be the copy of the Web site that we actually deliver to a web host intended for the public to view.
So again the app folder is for us the developer the source code and then the dist folder that we're
going to create is for the public.
This process of creating a copy of your project that is ready to distribute is often referred to as
your build process.
And luckily for us Westpac is arguably the best tool in the world to create a build process with.
So let's get to work.
Well actually before we start working on our build process let's first take care of our get branches.
So this lazy loading branch is ready to be merged into Master.
Let's run and get status to see what's changed.
These changes look good.
Let's add them all to our staging area and then let's commit that staging area and say completed lazy
loading of images.
Now that we've committed those changes we can safely jump back to the master branch so get check out
master.
And now we just want to merge in the lazy loading branch so get merge lazy loading.
All right.
So our master branch has now updated.
Let's go ahead and create a new branch for our build process so we can just say get branch let's name
it build dash process press enter and then let's switch over or check out that branch.
So get check out build dash process.
Cool.
Let's get to work.
So whenever we want to get work done we know that we go into the command line and run our NPM run Dev
task right that spins up our Web pack dev server.
Well right now let's create another command that we can run named NPM run build that will generate the
copy of our website for the public.
So to create a new NPM script or command like that we can just jump into our package dot Jason File.
Okay.
We are looking for these scripts area.
So here is that NPM run Dev script.
So at the end of this line there's a comma or if there's not already a comma.
Be sure to add one but let's drop down to a new line and let's say quotes you could name it anything
but just so you and I are on the same page.
Let's name it build quotes build coal in quotes and then we just need to call Web pack.
And if this is not the last script for you so you can see I have this one name test then.
Be sure to include a comma at the very end of this line.
OK.
So big picture when we want to work on our Web site we run NPM run Dev.
That's an ongoing task that's going to stay open and running until we tell it to stop.
However NPM run build will be a task that just runs once.
It's going to generate the alternate copy of our Web site and then it's done.
So let's go ahead and save this file and now we need to jump into our web pack config dot J.S. file.
Now within this config file we need to be able to determine which NPM script just ran was it NPM run
Dev or was it NPM run build.
Because we need to do drastically different things depending on the situation.
Right.
One is optimized for our convenience and workflow as a developer.
The other is optimized for publicly deliverable files.
So do this with me up at the very top of our Web pack config file it's start a brand new line of code
and let's say a concert and we can name this anything but just so you and I are on the same page.
Let's name it current task and let's set it to equal whatever the name of the current NPM script.
That was just executed is to grab that value we can just say process dot e envy dot NPM underscore life
cycle underscore event this is super useful.
So now our constant variable named current task will equal either Dev or build.
Right.
Because those are the names of our two scripts Dev or build.
So now we can do different things.
We can configure web Park differently depending on whether it's Dev or build.
Now from this point there are a million different ways you could organize this code to be different
for the two scenarios.
But let me show you how I would do it.
So right below our collection of posts CSX plug ins or right above where we say module that exports
equals I would add a new line and I would create a variable we can name it anything but to be on the
same page.
Let's name it.
Config.
So let config equal a new or empty object.
We will circle back to this in just a moment.
Now after that I would set up an if statement and I would say if parentheses curly brackets for the
condition if current task double equal sign to check for equality if that equals Dev well then this
is where we can customize the config object for Dev and then let's just copy and paste this if statement
and right below it just paste it in again and check to see if an equals built.
Okay.
Now this configuration object.
This is no longer what we want this file to export but I don't want to just delete this code right away
because we can use this as reference code.
We know that this works perfectly for our dev environment.
So just to keep this code around let's change this from module dot exports to SKU a variable and let's
just call it delete me later.
So by the end of this lesson we can delete all of this but for now it's a good reference and then down
at the very very bottom of this file.
Let's add a new line and say module dot exports equals that config object that we created.
So let's scroll back up to where we first created config so the idea is that any configuration that
can be the same or shared between dev and build will live in this object here and then any code that's
specific to Dev.
Well we can modify the config object in this if statement and we can setup unique things for the build
task within this if statement.
Let's start with a piece of configuration that's the same for both dev and build.
And that is our entry point right.
No matter what the entry point into our application is always going to be that main app dot J.S. file.
So let's just copy this entry line endure clipboard and then within this let config equals within these
curly brackets you can drop down and then paste in your clipboard.
Cool.
Now we no longer need that within this reference code so we can get rid of that down here and now output
is an example of something that should be different depending on whether it's for Dev or build.
So regarding the bundled file that Web pack generates.
Where do we want it to live.
Well this could make sense for Dev right.
It's going to add it to the app folder but for our bill the task we would want this to be the dist folder.
So let's do this.
Go ahead and select these curly brackets for the output value.
We don't need to select the output property name we just want the curly brackets for this object and
go ahead and copy this into your clipboard OK.
Now up in the if statement for Dev let's say config dot out put equals and then just paste in your clipboard.
OK.
And then within the if statement for build then the curly brackets we can say config dot output equals.
And once again just paste in your clipboard.
Only this time instead of outputting the bundle to AB we would want this to be.
OK so now down in our reference code we no longer need the output.
Next up we see dev server.
Now this entire bit of dev server code that is entirely only for the dev task.
We don't need this at all for the build task.
So just begin selecting from this curly bracket down to the closing curly bracket here.
You don't need to select the property name just the actual object itself.
So from curly bracket to curly bracket.
Copy that into your clipboard and then up within our if statement for Dev after this chunk of code for
output we can just say config dot dev server should equal.
And then just paste in your clipboard.
OK let's go ahead and get rid of that down in our reference code.
Next up we see a property named mode obviously for Dev we would want this to be development before build
we would want this to be set to production essentially during development.
There are different things that web patch can do for us to make our life as a developer easier.
But when we're just delivering code to the public we don't need to do those things any longer.
So backup in the if statement for Dev after the object for config got dev server we can just say config
dot mode equals quotes development.
OK then let's go set it up for build.
So within the if statement for build after config output to say config Dom mode equals quotes production.
OK so now down in our reference code we no longer need mode and now all that's left is the module property.
Now a bit later we will indeed want this to be different for Dev and build but for now just so we can
move forward and test our two tasks.
Let's consider this to be shared or that it can be the same between the two tasks.
So this time we do want to select the property name.
So just select from module down to this closing curly bracket.
Make sure you do not accidentally select the additional closing curly bracket so your selection should
end with a ending square bracket and then just one ending curly bracket.
Let's go ahead and we can even cut this into our clipboard instead of copying it.
And as you can see this is now completely empty so it can live up to its name right of delete me later.
This is that moment let's just delete it.
OK now with that code in our clipboard let's go up to our config object right.
This is the shared code for Devin build.
Now after this line of entry and it ends with a comma we can just drop down and paste in our clipboard.
OK.
At this point let's go ahead and save this file and let's test out our two NPM scripts.
So in our command line let's first test and make sure that our dev task is still running as it has been
throughout the course.
Let's make sure we didn't break anything.
So NPM run dev that should fire up our web pack dev server back in the browser.
Our website should be available from local host colon three thousand looks good to me.
If you really want to test to make sure that it's still working you could go into your main app dot
J.S. file and maybe just add an alert line that says hello.
This is a test.
Give that a save and you should see that pop up in the browser.
Cool.
Let me get rid of that alert text message so we know that our dev task is working so we can stop that
task in the command line press control see we know that it's working properly and this is the moment
of truth.
Let's test out our build task so to run that we just say NPM run build
now how do we know if that was successful.
Well if you open up your project folder well in the directory where you would find your app folder we
should now also see a brand new automatically generated folder named dist.
And if we go into the disk folder.
Perfect.
So this is our main bundled file with all of our javascript and CSX and this little lonely file is our
modal javascript.
Remember we set that up so it loads on the fly.
Or on demand only when the user actually clicks on the button to open the modal.
So we still have a bit of work to do we still need to set up Web pack so that it also copies over our
HDD PML.
And so it splits the CSX out of this file into its own traditional CSX file and so it also copies over
all of our images and photographs into the disk folder.
Now all of those things that I just mentioned.
That's exactly what we're going to work on in the next part of this lesson.
Once we finish up those details we will have a copy of our Web site that we can very easily send to
a web host and have it be served up to the public.
We are so close to being able to share this Web site with our friends family and colleagues.
So let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next video.